[THEME MUSIC]
>>REGINA MEREDITH:
Angels and guides often
seem to present us with
a double-edged sword.
Are we to engage them
only when necessary?
Do they want us to call on them
for anything we can think of,
or what if our
desire is selfish?
Normandi Ellis is here today to
speak with us about the nature
and history of angels and how
they engage with our lives.
Welcome, Normandi.
>>NORMANDI ELLIS:
Thank you, Regina.
Really good to be here.
>>REGINA: I'm happy
to have you here.
Let's just start
with your youth.
When you were young,
you told your mom
that God's wife
was singing to you
and that you sometimes
talked to her too.
Let's talk about
that for just a sec.
>>ELLIS: OK.
I was living in Kentucky.
It was a very deep
storm going on outside,
and I could hear her calling
through the eaves of the house.
It was almost as if
she was saying my name.
So I opened the
door, and there stood
this amazingly, beautiful angel.
I don't know what
else to call her.
And she asked to come in.
And so I told my
mother, come in.
And my mother said
who's sitting with us.
I said, it's God's wife.
She tells me, it's God's wife.
My mother was-- she
was pretty curious.
She was like, OK.
Would you like a cup of coffee?
>>REGINA: That's good.
She listened to you.
Usually they'd say, oh,
go play with your toys.
>>ELLIS: Oh, right.
That's--
>>REGINA: That's wonderful.
>>ELLIS: --true, but
she wanted to know.
>>REGINA: OK.
So she invited her
to have coffee?
>>ELLIS: Yes.
And so my mother and
Isis, which I later
learned was God's wife's
name, had coffee together.
My mother would
ask me, well, what
does she think about
blah, blah, blah?
>>REGINA: That's good.
>>ELLIS: And I would
listen and tell her
what she thought about it.
And I think one of the
interesting things about that
is that my mother's sister had
had a son who died in his youth,
when my mother was trying to
decide what religion should I?
Be Catholic or what?
She was leaving the
Catholic Church.
And so the question
she was asking me,
Isis was answering for her.
And so I think it
really came in--
>>REGINA: Now, was your mom
resonating with the answers?
>>ELLIS: Oh, yes.
Oh, yes.
>>REGINA: So did she--
did you get a little more
street cred with her after that?
Did she think you were
tapped into something
or just a smart little kid?
>>ELLIS: I think so.
I think she-- I got a
little street cred for it.
But I really resonated
with spirituality.
I had an aunt who--
a great aunt, who was
a spiritualist medium.
>>REGINA: Oh, so your mom was
at least accustomed to this
already?
>>ELLIS: Oh, yeah.
She had had Billy, who
was the cousin who died,
show up in this
aunt's room where
she was sleeping one night.
It was a seance room
by day-- by night.
And my mother is staying with
my aunt, and so she saw Billy.
And it freaked her out.
So she put the pillow over her
face and told him to go away.
And in the morning, my aunt
was very angry with her.
My mother said, what's wrong?
What did I do?
And she said, you aren't
very nice to my guests.
You told Billy to go away.
>>REGINA: But how nice it is
that your family was so open--
>>ELLIS: They were.
>>REGINA: --to the other realms?
>>ELLIS: Yes.
>>REGINA: And you
were very lucky
that they didn't shut
you down at a young age.
So in not shutting you down,
how did this continue developing
and how long was it before you
understood that this was Isis?
>>ELLIS: I think I understood
that it was Isis rather early.
I started as a young adult
to read Dion Fortune.
And Dion Fortune clued
me in about priestess.
And so I read a lot of her work.
I had a lot of
incidences where things
would manifest in my house.
And I at first was
afraid of them.
So I learned how
to protect myself.
And then I learned how
to talk with spirit.
And eventually, that
kind of leads us
into the story of how
I began to translate
the Egyptian hieroglyphs.
>>REGINA: Yes, OK.
That's interesting.
Now, I mean, so here Isis is it
from the Egyptian iconography
of the gods in the
order of the universe.
And my guides are the same,
come from the same background.
And I don't think
that's uncommon
right now that people who
had lives in that time,
in Atlantean times, do
have their Egyptian guiding
forces with them again.
>>ELLIS: Yes.
>>REGINA: And one thing my
guides told me many years ago
was that we did not accurately
understand the hieroglyphics,
that there was much more
information than what--
is it Budge--
Walter Budge?
>>ELLIS: Yes.
>>REGINA: --had discovered.
That was a good start,
but that wasn't it.
>>ELLIS: Right.
>>REGINA: So you
pick up the story
from there because this
is fascinating to me.
>>ELLIS: OK.
So it starts with my running
into an old neighborhood friend,
who lived up the street from us.
He went to high school with me.
And then after he was
out of high school,
he was drafted, big high
number, to go to Vietnam.
And he managed to get into the
medicore, medical part of it.
And so he assisted
souls in transition.
And that's when the Rosicrucians
came to find him and help him--
>>REGINA: How interesting.
>>ELLIS: --assist
souls in transition.
And so he had a lot
of material on that.
And we were talking
about Dion Fortune
and he said, yeah, you
should read Wallis Budge.
And I was like, oh, all right.
So he walks me over to the
bookstore across the street
from where we're sitting, takes
the book off the shelf and says,
buy this.
I was like, OK.
So I bought the book, went home.
And that night, he
comes to my door.
He said, I just found out
that I have to leave town.
He at that time was
working as a riverboat--
on a riverboat and he
had to go downstream.
And he said, and I have to
move out of my apartment.
So I don't know what to
do with these materials.
But I'll give them to
you to take care of,
and then I'll get them later.
I was like, OK, that's fine.
He said, I'm not supposed
to share them around, but--
>>REGINA: Was this
Rosicrucian materials?
>>ELLIS: Yes.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
And so I took all
of his material
and didn't think
much more about it.
And I moved to
Boulder of all places.
I just felt this call like,
I have to go to Boulder.
So I went to Boulder.
I didn't take much with me
except $300 and his books.
And somehow I managed
to begin study
at the University
of Colorado, which
was right across the street
from where I was living,
and in a translation workshop.
We had to work
with two languages.
I did Spanish, and then I
didn't have another language.
>>REGINA: I'm
assuming you didn't
suggest that it was Egyptian
hieroglyphics at the time.
>>ELLIS: Well, I did.
I said, I don't have
another language.
And he said, well,
what interests you?
And I said hieroglyphs.
>>REGINA: Oh, really?
>>ELLIS: Yeah, because I
kept these boxes of Robert's
in the closet in my bedroom.
And I would open the
closet, and I could
feel them going [VOCALIZATION].
>>REGINA: Yeah, yeah.
>>ELLIS: So he said, well, since
it's not your native language,
go pick up something and
just start working with it.
I said, OK.
>>REGINA: Wow, lucky you.
>>ELLIS: I know.
He was a wonderful teacher.
Sidney Goldfarb, bless his soul.
>>REGINA: Wonderful.
>>ELLIS: He was wonderful.
>>REGINA: So take an
example of a glyph
and what was previously
understood by Budge and then
how it was fleshed out
within your meditations.
>>ELLIS: OK.
Let's use the image
of the dung beetle.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>ELLIS: OK, khepera, OK, that's
the name of the dung beetle.
And there are variations
upon the name.
And sometimes there
were chants that were
written in the book that was--
it was always translated
as word for word,
but it didn't account for the
play of sound into the material
like, [NON-ENGLISH].
And it means in the beginning,
which is khepera, I became,
which is khepera, the becoming,
which is khepera, being,
which is khepera, what I
created, which is khepera.
And so it would not make
sense unless you figured out
how to translate it and
try to keep the connection
of the sounds in it together.
>>REGINA: So it
went from, tell us
what the original
definition of it was,
and then when you did your
overlay, what it became.
>>ELLIS: OK.
The original definition, it
was like, being becoming.
I'm a being becoming.
Over, and over, and over again.
But it didn't-- it didn't play
well because there were other
connections to it.
>>REGINA: I'm a being becoming.
And what did it
become when you--
>>ELLIS: In the beginning
I became the becoming
being what I created,
which gives it
a whole different flavor
because he was just saying,
I am a being, I am a
being, I am a being.
But the flavor of the
extra consonants and parts
of the language were
making it more than that.
>>REGINA: Yes.
So you fleshed it
out into it sounds
like a more dynamic language?
>>ELLIS: Yeah.
For every sentence that Budge
had, I wanted to layer it.
So I would layer
it with the sound.
I would layer it
with the imagery.
And I would layer it
with the narrative,
which is the story
behind the dung beetle.
So that became part of an
alchemical transformation
that the Egyptians knew.
>>REGINA: OK.
So the other thing that my
guides had told me back then
was that everything has been
left for us in the hieroglyphics
about our future.
And they said they were
trying to make a joke,
but they're not funny--
sorry, they're not funny.
But they were saying, as you
would say, back to your future.
And so they said, your future is
embedded in these hieroglyphics.
It's telling you
everything you need
know to advance as a species.
Did you find that after
you translated it?
>>ELLIS: I did.
I did.
People will say to me,
oh, you must have had
many, many past lives in Egypt.
And I also think, well, maybe
I have many, many future lives
and I'm just planning
them right now
in studying this because in
reality, time isn't linear.
It goes backwards and forwards.
The spirit, let's
think of it as a bird,
fishes from one
end of the stream
to the other end of the stream
and collects what it needs.
That's the same as
true with the Angels
because we are all part of
a light dynamic which never
forgets where it came from.
>>REGINA: OK.
And we're going to hop over into
the angelic realm in a moment.
I want to just dig
a little bit more
on the Egyptian part
of this because it's
such a big part of your life.
So of all that you studied
over those 10 years
and looking at this template
for what humanity will become,
what really stood out after
you had defined these?
>>ELLIS: The concept of
Maat, the winged Isis.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>ELLIS: The concept
of Maat, I think that--
>>REGINA: What you're
wearing around your neck?
>>ELLIS: Yes, I'm wearing
her around my neck.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>ELLIS: I think that that
idea of 42 negative confessions
is what they called it, but
they were really 42 precepts.
I have not done this,
I have not done that.
It's much more than 10.
>>REGINA: You could
explain to those
who don't understand who Maat
is, what Maat represents.
>>ELLIS: Maat is the
goddess who weighs
the heart in the balance
at the end of one's life.
Your heart is the
seat of consciousness.
And so your heart is placed
in the balance, which
is on the scales of Maat,
and your consciousness, which
is in your heart, it speaks and
it says, I have not done this.
I have not done that.
So it's not what you do.
It's more about what
you have not done.
>>REGINA: But in
terms of the negative?
>>ELLIS: In terms of
the negative, right.
>>REGINA: Which
you did not choose
to participate in that would
have brought yourself lower?
>>ELLIS: That's right.
For example, I find
most fascinating
that one of the precepts is I
have not polluted the water.
>>REGINA: Interesting.
>>ELLIS: That's something that
we need to pay attention to now.
>>REGINA: Hugely.
Yes.
>>ELLIS: I have not
dammed the river, which
is to take the river's
abundance and take it away
from your neighbor's land.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>ELLIS: So it's a
little fine tunings.
>>REGINA: Really
that does point more
to how we're going to need
to rebalance ourselves
in the future?
>>ELLIS: Yes, it is.
>>REGINA: Yeah, interesting.
Well, OK, so let's
go on to the guides
and talk about-- you
were in Egypt one time.
Obviously this led you to the
Egyptian Book of the Dead.
>>ELLIS: Yes.
>>REGINA: So now, we
have this story unfolding
of the hieroglyphics, and
their deeper meaning, and Maat.
Now, let's go to the
Egyptian Book of the Dead
and what that brought to you.
>>ELLIS: OK.
I translated the book.
10 years it took me.
I had never been to Egypt.
And so I decided that--
my mother-in-law at the
time, who was Greek,
wanted to bring
us over to Greece.
And I said, great.
I'm going to be close
enough to Egypt.
I'm going.
I was to meet a friend there,
but the friend had an accident
before she could come.
So I walked into Egypt alone.
I know no one.
I know nothing except what I
know from the Book of the Dead.
And yet, when I
step on the ground,
I feel myself being lifted up
by this energy, by this spirit,
and I know I'm where
I'm supposed to be.
And so I asked Isis,
show me the right person
to take me on the tour.
And she walked me over-- it
felt like she walked me over
to this table.
I paid the man for--
tour money and began to travel
on my own through Egypt.
And it was an
amazing experience.
It was 1989 when I went.
It was a very different
Egypt than it is now.
And I walked into
a shop, and I saw--
I was in Luxor and I saw
this statue that I wanted.
And I was told I
needed to negotiate.
So I tried to
negotiate with the guy.
He wasn't budging.
But finally, I go back
before the kiosk closes
and I purchase it.
And then night has
descended, and I'm
running through the street
trying to figure out, OK--
clutching the statue
of Isis to my chest,
it's like, I don't
know where I am.
I'm lost.
And I felt someone following me.
And I would switch over to
the other side of the street,
and they would switch over.
And I kept going.
I'd go around the corner.
They would go around the corner.
I thought, oh, my goddess,
what am I going to do?
And in a moment, this
carriage comes by
and there's a young man driving
the horse and the carriage.
And he looks at me and he says,
lady, your hotel is that way.
And so I said, thank you.
And I run, and I turn.
And sure enough,
that was my hotel.
>>REGINA: Oh.
>>ELLIS: I don't
know how he knew.
I had run all
through the entire--
>>REGINA: Well, it sounds
like someone gave him a nudge.
>>ELLIS: Yeah, I think he was.
Yeah, God gave him
a nudge and said,
come disguised as that little
boy driving the chariot
so she'll trust you.
>>REGINA: So, OK.
So now you're interacting with
your guides, with your angels.
And so let's go to where
you decided to take this
on as a life mission
to help others
understand that they
too have angels,
everyone has angels, and
the nature of that realm,
and how they work with us.
>>ELLIS: OK.
So what caused me to pay
attention to the angels
is actually that I was living
in Chesterfield, Indiana
at a spiritualist camp.
And we had a trail
of religions there.
All the major religions,
Jainism, and Buddhism,
and Zoroastrian,
and Egyptian, there
was an Osiris statue there,
and Christian, et cetera.
And I realized that
each-- what connected
each one of these traditions
is that they don't always
believe in the same God,
but they believe in angels.
All of them believe in
the power of angels.
And all of them believe that
angels are messengers, which
I think is an important point.
They don't say, pray to angels.
They say ask the
angels for assistance.
And where does--
>>REGINA: Big difference.
>>ELLIS: Yes, yes.
And the assistance comes from--
they take the message up.
God, she needs your help.
And so he sends it
down and he sends
a particular angel, who is named
after one of his qualities.
>>REGINA: Prudence?
>>ELLIS: Well, actually
one of my favorite ones
is this angel called Phanuel.
>>REGINA: Oh.
>>ELLIS: And the angel Phanuel
saves us from our own stupidity.
>>REGINA: Oh, they must
be really busy right now.
>>ELLIS: Yeah, I think so.
So yeah, and I wanted to
explore that connection
between religions because I
thought that that was important.
And the angels were
the vehicle to do that.
So I studied all the
different traditions
that I could and collected
all of their angelic stories.
And in the process, I
ended up getting a PhD
in comparative religions.
So my dissertation
essentially became the book.
I just rewrote it so that
it was more manageable.
>>REGINA: Right, right, right.
So every tradition believes that
we have angels surrounding us.
So let me get this
straight first.
What's the difference
between an angel and a guide?
>>ELLIS: Oh.
>>REGINA: Because we all
perceive that we have guidance.
>>ELLIS: Yes.
And we can have guides who are
angels, but many of our guides
have had a human life, OK.
I have a guide whose name is--
well, I'll just name
one, John RedBird.
OK, and he once had a life.
And he is my protector.
And Chuan in his native
language means red bird.
So I heard John RedBird.
OK, fine.
That's who I communicate with.
His story I actually was able
to find it on the Internet,
that he was a chief who stood
in one of the-- in Kentucky
at one of the waterfalls.
And he hid his people
behind the waterfall
when they were
trying to kill them.
And so he saved them, the
women and the children,
by stepping out and letting
them think that he was alone.
And he sacrificed himself.
So this John RedBird was a
real Native American man.
And I talked to him all the time
when I'm driving in the car.
It's like, OK, I can
see out this window.
Not so well out of that.
So take the wheel.
I'm looking, OK.
>>REGINA: Nice.
So you have very direct
personal relationship?
>>ELLIS: Yes.
>>REGINA: So then how would
you add the angelic layer
above that?
Above, to the side.
I mean, I don't want to
make it hierarchical,
but where do you add it?
>>ELLIS: I think that the
difference that I perceive
in that is that angels--
most angels have not had
a human physical life.
And they understand our
needs, but they don't really
understand our attachment
to a particular outcome
or something like that.
>>REGINA: So the emotional
structure is very different?
>>ELLIS: Yeah.
The emotional structure
is very different.
So an angel will work with
us on an intellectual level,
but a lot of our
guides work with us
on an emotional
and psychic level.
>>REGINA: So
day-to-day, you tend
to work a little
more with your guides
or most people tend to work a
little more with their guides
because we're so
riddled with emotions?
>>ELLIS: Right.
>>REGINA: And so then,
how would we start
interfacing with the angels?
What would be the best way--
best use of calling
on angelic energy?
>>ELLIS: OK.
So I realized that I became
more comfortable working
with the angels when I
started to do meditations
in the full moon
and the new moon.
And in order to set the space,
I create a circle, a surrounding
of protection, and then I call
on the angels of the directions.
And I could physically feel them
come in once I called their name
and stood there waiting for
Raphael to come from the east,
for Michael to come from
the south, for Gabriel
to come from the west, and
Uriel to come from the north.
And I could wait there and
feel them surrounding me.
And then as I did
the meditation,
we could feel the light that
the angels were sending us.
The whole room
became much lighter.
Everybody's aura began to lift.
And I think that's
a really good way
to start working with
angels, is to call them in.
You can do it one at a time
or you can set a circle.
Many, many more will come.
>>REGINA: Well, like I
said in the very beginning,
I think people are a
little self conscious.
Why would I-- why would
I call on a being that
has so much already going on
for my personal little stuff
in life?
And so a lot of people
want to know what's
appropriate to work with--
you have your guides on board
with you when you're driving,
like watch out on that mirror.
It's blocked.
But what about angels?
What's the nature of
what you call them in for
and utilize them for?
>>ELLIS: The nature is usually,
when I do a meditation,
I'm doing it not for
my personal gain.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>ELLIS: OK, I am doing a
meditation, and we're sitting
and we're trying to
imagine world peace.
>>REGINA: So you're trying
to bring higher knowledge
for example?
>>ELLIS: Higher Knowledge.
>>REGINA: Yeah, that's how I
use it too, higher knowledge.
And it's interesting because--
in fact, I'll just
toss this out to you.
I was listening to a podcast
with the British astrologer
Pamela Gregory recently.
>>ELLIS: Oh, I love her.
>>REGINA: Yes, she's lovely.
And she had a guest on, Susan
Love I think was her name.
And Susan said, I haven't
talked about this,
but I've experienced
it for a long time.
And I recently
mentioned it to my--
her following and they
started flooding her
with feedback about
these blue beings.
And I know my two
primary guides are--
I just call them
the Big Blue Guys.
And they've been with me--
these have been with
me for about 25 years.
They kind of-- I switched
out guides at one point.
But let's talk a little
bit about this notion
of these blue beings because
another lovely older woman years
ago wrote a book in
Sedona about them,
about these blue beings
who are here to help
humanity who are from Arcturus.
So tell us a little bit, for
anyone listening that sees
and experiences, the blue guys.
>>ELLIS: OK.
My understanding in studying
all of these religions
is that every one of them
is connected to astrology.
And so each--
>>REGINA: And planets.
>>ELLIS: Each planet,
each constellation
has its own blue beings, or
green beings, or whatever.
>>REGINA: Red.
>>ELLIS: Red, yes.
And each-- and in
studying the angels,
each place is related to
an angel related to a star.
So the angel is an overseer
of all of those Pleiadians
or Arcturians.
>>REGINA: Or one elephant in
the room would be Krishna.
>>ELLIS: Yes.
A nice blue being.
>>REGINA: A nice blue being.
So these blue-- these blue
beings that people-- have you
experienced these blue beings?
>>ELLIS: Yes, I have.
Yes.
>>REGINA: And so what would you
say their fundamental nature is?
Because I find are
incredibly helpful,
but I just tend not
to ask for much help.
And I'm shocked at how much
help is given if I actually ask.
>>ELLIS: I've tried
to understand them
because I don't
see them as angels,
but I see them as intelligent
life sent by angels.
>>REGINA: Yeah, OK.
>>ELLIS: OK.
And I think that any
number of blue beings
could come to you, to
me, to someone else.
And I have seen
them show up when
they have something to tell me.
"You need to pay
attention to this."
Interestingly enough, they
tend to show up when--
I don't know the nature
of Arcturus as a system,
but they show up
when I'm near water.
>>REGINA: Interesting.
>>ELLIS: Yeah.
So when I am near water,
when I was living at the farm
where the creek ran
all the way around it,
they'd show up all the time.
They would show up in my dreams.
They had a lot of
energy for mind transfer
and it was like, teach
me what I need to know.
The Egyptian gods
were blue beings--
some of them were.
>>REGINA: OK.
Now, that's interesting.
So I'll share a little anecdote.
And I'll try to make it brief.
It was a very profound
moment in life.
I've shared part of it before
I think in another talk.
But I was in Israel, and
through bizarre circumstance
I was at the John the
Baptist sanctuary--
not sanctuary, monastery.
And what is not known
is the baptismal well
is protected within there,
but above it is a cave.
I went into the cave.
This is right outside.
This is in Ankuram I think.
And it was Christmas Eve,
Christmas Day-- maybe the day
before.
Empty, there wasn't a single
person there, which was odd.
And So I got the cave all
to myself and sat down.
And all of a sudden,
everything came alive.
And these beings,
my guides, started--
I could see them in the
room and a friend of mine,
who shares the same history.
And then this one in this
kind of billowy white just
came diagonally through the
ceiling down in front of me.
And I just-- I was
startled like I'd been--
like a surprise birthday party
and you weren't ready for it.
And I was like, whoa,
what's going on here?
Hieroglyphics just
flashed by and were
downloaded into the aura.
And I said, who are you?
And I heard Manat.
I thought-- I was
trying to pick it up.
So I got home, and then
talked to my guides
back when I was out of Israel
back in the United States.
I said, yeah, this amazing
being, it was quite a show,
it came down.
They said, well, it took
that to get your attention.
She's been trying to get
your attention for eons
and you haven't
really noticed her.
And I said, yeah, I
thought her name was Manat
and they said, very close.
That's my Maat.
And so they said, Maat has been
trying to get your attention.
And that is that
downloading of information.
When I sit quietly, I do
get information from her
in particular I believe.
Yeah.
>>ELLIS: I love what you say
about the hieroglyphics flashing
through your mind.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>ELLIS: When I was
in Egypt on a boat,
I remember one night we were--
the full moon was coming up.
It was an October full moon,
very spooky anyway, right?
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>ELLIS: And they were playing
music in the background.
And I looked into
the water, and I
could see the music was
moving the water around.
And then all of a
sudden, it started
to create hieroglyphic shapes.
>>REGINA: Interesting.
>>ELLIS: And I was reading the
hieroglyphs inside the water.
And other people began
to notice it too.
So yeah, we got our videos
out and we're recording it.
It was quite amazing.
But I think that happens a lot.
>>REGINA: And I think this
particular pantheon of beings
is here on Earth.
I mean, like they
said, your future
is embedded in
the hieroglyphics.
And so your future, past,
whatever with that loop,
but where we're headed
in terms of understanding
the nature of reality.
So I think that
pantheon of beings
is back for those who can take
the quiet and time to listen
and connect to start
guiding us with, again,
this higher level
of information,
a more refined
level of information
than what we would normally get.
I mean, that's what I
find Maat particularly
wonderful for, is this
refined level of information
saying just the right
thing when we need it.
>>ELLIS: Yeah.
There's another blue-faced
being called Ptah.
And Ptah speaks the
world into being.
And his name, it's P-T-AH.
It's like [VOCALIZATION].
He doesn't move.
He simply speaks.
But he created the
world in this way.
And we hear that story
of how the world was
created through the lips,
through the language,
through the tongue.
>>REGINA: Through the
vibration, the sound.
>>ELLIS: Through
vibrations, the sound
of the vibrations of speech.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>ELLIS: Yeah.
>>REGINA: So we have--
so that kind of covers
the Egyptian part, but
again, like you say,
there are angels-- you say there
are as many angels as photons.
Angels are everywhere.
>>ELLIS: That's right.
>>REGINA: So this gets
into an interesting subject
of free will.
Humans are really
unique this way.
We can say, hey, what the heck.
I'm in Greece.
I'm just going to get
a bus ticket for Egypt
and figure it out
when I get there.
That's not necessarily
the case on other planets
and other realms.
There seems to be more
of an orderliness,
where the people understand
what they're doing together
and work more toward
the good of the all
where we're more free to just
do whatever the heck we want.
And my understanding is we're
quite a curiosity for beings
throughout the universe to watch
what this free will results in.
I mean, we're looking at what
it results in for good and bad.
So let's talk about
angels and free will,
and how they deal with the
free will of human beings,
and how they feel about that.
>>ELLIS: OK.
So I'm going to go back
to a biblical story, where
Jesus is in the garden.
And he's praying and he knows
he's about to be sacrificed.
And the angel appears.
He doesn't tell him what to do.
He just stands with
him as a witness.
And his prayer is, take
this cup away from me.
And yet he says, not
my will, but thine.
And that is the essence of free
will, is to say not my will,
but thine.
Or as my metaphysical
teacher taught me,
when you're working on something
that you're trying to create,
you'll say, this or
something better?
And so you're going
to let the divine have
a hand in figuring it out.
And that is acceptance of what
happens for the best of all.
>>REGINA: So that's not how
we normally operate here.
>>ELLIS: No.
No, I know.
>>REGINA: And so how
does the angelic realm
view human beings and
the way we use free will?
And how do they try to
work with us amidst that?
Because there are just so
many options out there.
>>ELLIS: And so the
stories that we know
are stories of how
God created man.
We don't know how he created
the beings on the other planet.
We're not told that
part of the story.
OK, but there are many
apocryphal stories
that have been taken out
of the various traditions.
There are Jewish stories, and
there are Christian stories,
and there's--
>>REGINA: Native American
creation stories.
>>ELLIS: Right.
All of those.
The apocryphal story
is that God said,
I'm going to make these people.
And he's making them out
of the same substance
as he made the
angels, but he's going
to add a little clay to it
to make us have a form that's
different than the
angels, but we have a lot
of the same energy of angels.
And various of the other
angels come along and go,
well, I mean, it's
not for me to say,
but I wouldn't do
that if I were you.
It's like, I wouldn't make
people because, I mean,
you're going to put
them on a planet,
and they're just
going to run havoc.
And you're going to
give them free will?
We don't have free will.
Why would you-- why
would you do that?
And he says, because when
they come to me in the end,
it will be more powerful than
even my work with the angels
because they will
have chosen me.
And I think that that's the
whole thing about free will,
is that we need to learn
to choose the divine,
and not to insert our
own emotional base.
>>REGINA: That's a
very powerful journey,
and it's one that has a great
amount of resistance to it.
And I know having read
from hermetic texts,
they write about how
the angels will actually
bow before a human
that has found
their way through this
maze of life and journey
to ultimately choose
the divine in themselves
and beyond because it's
such a hard journey here.
There's just so much to
distract us, so much to enjoy.
But at the same time, then
you hear the other part,
which is that we are
here to enjoy this Earth.
We are here to enjoy
being in a body,
being in this beautiful sensual
environment that we're in.
So that balance seems
to be the trick,
trying to find the balance
between pure enjoyment
of the natural essence, and
sensuality, and beauty here
versus the abuse of
it in taking ourselves
into a downward spiral.
Really, kind of associating
with lower realm energy.
>>ELLIS: Yeah.
I think you're right.
And I think the thingliness
of our existence confuses us.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>ELLIS: We have a
hard time saying, Oh,
that, pomegranate is just
wonderful, it tastes so good,
and not going in and
hogging all of it
and making ourselves
sick with it.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>ELLIS: We have
to appreciate that.
That's good.
Thank you, God.
I mean, waking up in the
morning and saying a prayer
that everything that you do this
day is going to be God-driven
makes your life a
lot more manageable.
>>REGINA: That's true.
And it doesn't take away from
the pleasure of life at all.
>>ELLIS: No.
>>REGINA: It may take away from,
as you said, the overconsumption
of certain aspects of life,
which don't help anyway
because that really amounts
to a feeling of lack, which
leads to greed.
The only reason we overconsume
is a fear of lack when
you come right underneath it.
So let's talk about
in the end, there
are varieties of angels
or categories of angels
just so people can see what
they resonate with here.
So plane one, plane
two, and plane three.
>>ELLIS: Oh, gosh.
>>REGINA: We just have-- we have
about five or six minutes left,
but I thought, geez,
we need to get to that.
>>ELLIS: OK.
So the lowest
plane of the angels
are what we think of as the
everyday messengers that come.
And in control of them--
there's three levels in those.
And in control in charge are
the archangels that we know.
And there are seven of those.
It's interesting.
Each tradition has seven--
>>REGINA: Yes, all of them.
>>ELLIS: All of them have
seven major divine beings.
And some of the levels above
that, some of the angels
are intended not as
messengers, but as sun singers.
They praise God.
That's their whole point,
is to tell God, we love you.
We thank you.
I love the idea that
Shams, who was the Sufi who
inspired Rumi, his name
in the Yazidi tradition
means sun singer.
And he would stand on
the edge of the cliff
and sing the sun into being.
And we think about
Jacob's ladder,
where he wrestles
with the angel.
Then at the end, he sees
the angels going up and down
their several layers.
And at the end, he
wrestles with an angel.
And the angel says, let me go.
I have to go because
the sun is coming
because he's a sun singer.
>>REGINA: Yes.
So the sun is really central
to virtually all traditions--
>>ELLIS: Yes.
>>REGINA: --in the end?
It is central.
And it is our life giver
in the solar system.
So I think that's fair enough.
So here we have
the angelic realm.
And then we have
this other realm,
and you call it dominion,
powers, and virtues.
>>ELLIS: Right, right.
And the virtues--
the virtues are
very interesting because
they don't really
have much of a physical form.
They show up as geometric
shapes with eyes.
So it's like wheels within
wheels kind of thing,
like you see in Ezekiel.
They're very
powerful messengers.
They don't come very often.
But when they do, it's like.
>>REGINA: And that's
to instill a virtue?
>>ELLIS: Instill a virtue.
>>REGINA: OK.
And then we have plane one,
which is the seraphim, cherubim,
and thrones.
>>ELLIS: OK.
Now, the cherubim, we
always think of them
as the little pudgy baby.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
A little bit, yeah.
>>ELLIS: Yeah, no.
They're not like that.
>>REGINA: Are they the ones that
are a little closer in that we
tend to experience?
>>ELLIS: They're
a little closer in
and we tend to experience them.
>>REGINA: I had
a dream one time.
This little man with this pure
white skin and these crystal
blue eyes came and gave me
a little kiss in that he
was a little seraphim.
>>ELLIS: Yeah.
>>REGINA: I mean, I don't
know if seraphim kiss you
in your sleep, but anyway.
That was one.
>>ELLIS: Well, we always ask
them to surround our bed,
don't we?
>>REGINA: There we go.
Well, it was very sweet.
It wasn't prurient at all.
It was sweet.
OK, the difference between
the plane one beings,
seraphim, cherubim, and thrones.
>>ELLIS: OK, the thrones
are more orderly, more--
they're more of making the
world in which we live,
making the planet
spin in the right--
>>REGINA: They create structure.
>>ELLIS: They create structure.
>>REGINA: OK, cherubim.
>>ELLIS: Cherubim.
The cherubim--
>>REGINA: Give us a
general idea of what
the seraphim and cherubim, how
they present themselves to us.
>>ELLIS: OK, they are more
called in by, I would say,
organized religion
if that makes sense.
They take care of the places
in which we live kind of like--
gosh, I'm trying to think.
I once saw a city of gold
appear on the horizon.
And it was Merod.
And it was filled
with these beings
that I would have identified
as angels that were cherubim
and seraphim, but it
was more like they
were Buddhist or Hindu.
And it was a city
of gold that was
floating through the air on
the harmonic convergence.
>>REGINA: Oh, yes, yes.
>>ELLIS: When I sat
up at the mountains
and was meditating
before the sun came up,
and I saw them
right over Denver.
I was like, oh, that's cool.
And I thought I
was making it up.
And my friend was with me
and she's, do you see this?
>>REGINA: So it sounds
like this group of angels
really protects the
energy of sacred spaces.
>>ELLIS: Yes, they do.
And in the Tibetan
tradition, they
protect the monasteries
from falling apart
during all the earthquakes.
And so they're putting together
the structure of the Earth.
So I would say, now
that we're feeling
all the energy of the
earthquakes coming along
and the water--
>>REGINA: We have a lot of
Earth activity coming up.
>>ELLIS: We have a lot of
And I believe that those are the
angels that are watching that.
>>REGINA: OK.
And we can call on them
to help stabilize things?
>>ELLIS: Yes, we can.
>>REGINA: OK.
We didn't get to Lucifer.
Everybody likes to
talk about Lucifer,
but we didn't get there.
But essentially what would
you say Lucifer's purpose--
in your studies, what
is Lucifer's purpose
among humankind?
>>ELLIS: I think Zoroastrians
have the best definition.
They don't call him Lucifer.
They call him Angra Mainyu.
And then there's a good
thought, bad thought.
And so it's really he's an
embodiment of our poor choices.
>>REGINA: OK.
So lower mind-- lower mind?
>>ELLIS: Lower mind.
>>REGINA: OK, well, I
think that's about as good
a description as I've heard.
And I think that's true.
It's a representation
of our mind
that doesn't have the
divine overlay to it.
Yeah.
Very good.
Well, I thank you so much for
taking 10 years to figure out
the hieroglyphics for us in a
way that gives it dimension.
And we can certainly
suggest that people take
a look through your own work.
So I really appreciate your
taking the time to be here--
>>ELLIS: Thank you, Regina.
It was fun to be here.
>>REGINA: --talking
about the angels.
So anyway, well, next time,
maybe we'll get to Lucifer.
But for now, that's good enough.
Anyway, thank you
so much, Normandi.
Again, the name of the book
is The Ancient Tradition
of Angels, which you can find
through major booksellers.
You can also find her
work at normandiellis.com.
Until next time, thank you for
joining us here on Open Minds.
[THEME MUSIC]